content/about/_index.md, before:

---
title: "About"
date: 2023-11-02 07:26:00 +0100
---

Welcome to this little blog, my name is Joachim Wiberg, formerly
Nilsson.  The nick `troglobit` is a tribute to my childhood friend
Henrik Flordal, for being a good friend and inspiring me to become a
hacker.  It is also the first password to a Linux server (Henrik's) I
got a login to, back in 1995.

So yes, I'm a huge Linux and UNIX nerd.  Ever since my first job, after
[graduating from MdU][resume], I've been running Linux on almost all my
machines, including those at work.  In the beginning (2000) it was hard
and even actively discouraged by management and IT departments, but I
made it work and set the bar for others to follow!

Today I work a [Addiva Elektronik](https://addiva.se) in Västerås,
Sweden, as a software architect and embedded systems consultant.  My
specialty is networking solutions and embedded Linux, preferably
[Buildroot](https://buildroot.org).  For a very long time I worked at
[Westermo R&D][westermo] as a software architect for [WeOS][], a
Linux-based network operating system for switches and routers that I
created 2005-2007 for them, which since has grown up considerably.
These days I spend my time building [yet another network operating
system][infix], this time based on Buildroot and with NETCONF.

In my spare time I write Free/Libre Open Source Software ([FLOSS][]).
For example, I maintain [Finit][], [Inadyn][], [pimd][], [mrouted][],
[SMCRoute][], [sysklogd][], [uftpd][], and more at [GitHub][].

My [GPG key][] fingerprint is `4A11 E139 3486 34EF 499C ECAC ECA8 26A3
7B6C 7409`.  Fetch it from a key server using:

    gpg --recv-keys ECA826A37B6C7409

You can find my [online resume here][resume], or download the [PDF][].

[Finit]:    /finit.html
[Inadyn]:   /inadyn.html
[pimd]:     /pimd.html
[mrouted]:  /mrouted.html
[SMCRoute]: /smcroute.html
[uftpd]:    /uftpd.html
[westermo]: https://www.westermo.com
[WeOS]:     https://www.westermo.com/web/web_en_idc_com.nsf/AllDocuments/771C3C1ECF9B9550C1257E58002B89B3
[FLOSS]:    https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_and_open-source_software
[GitHub]:   https://github.com/troglobit/
[sysklogd]: https://github.com/troglobit/sysklogd
[GPG key]:  http://keys.gnupg.net/pks/lookup?search=0xECA826A37B6C7409&fingerprint=on&op=index
[resume]:   https://resume.troglobit.com
[PDF]:      https://resume.troglobit.com/resume.pdf
[infix]:    https://github.com/kernelkit/infix

Commit message:

Update About page, new name for $CURJOB
Signed-off-by: Joachim Wiberg <troglobit@gmail.com>

content/about/_index.md, after:

---
title: "About"
date: 2024-02-02 08:35:00 +0100
---

Welcome to this little blog!  I'm Joachim Wiberg, formerly Nilsson.  The
nick `troglobit` is a tribute to my childhood friend Henrik Flordal, for
being a good friend and inspiring me to become a hacker.  It is also my
first password to a Linux server (Henrik's), back in 1995.

So yes, I'm a huge Linux and UNIX nerd.  Ever since my first job, after
[graduating from MdU][resume], I've (only) been running Linux on almost
all my machines (some run BSD or UNUX though ;-), including work.  In
the beginning (1998-2000) it was hard and even actively discouraged by
management and IT departments, but I persevered and got Linux into many
organizations over the years.

Today I work a [Wires](https://wires.se) in Västerås, Sweden,
as a software architect and embedded systems consultant.  My specialty is
networking solutions and embedded Linux, preferably based on [Infix][] or
[Buildroot](https://buildroot.org).  For a very long time I worked at
[Westermo R&D][westermo] as a software architect for [WeOS][], a
Linux-based network operating system for switches and routers that I
created 2005-2007 for them, which since has grown up considerably.
These days I spend my time building [yet another network operating
system][Infix], this time based on Buildroot and with NETCONF.

In my spare time I write Free/Libre Open Source Software ([FLOSS][]).
For example, I maintain [Finit][], [Inadyn][], [pimd][], [mrouted][],
[SMCRoute][], [sysklogd][], [uftpd][], and more at [GitHub][].

My [GPG key][] fingerprint is `4A11 E139 3486 34EF 499C ECAC ECA8 26A3
7B6C 7409`.  Fetch it from a key server using:

    gpg --recv-keys ECA826A37B6C7409

You can find my [online resume here][resume], or download the [PDF][].

[Finit]:    /finit.html
[Inadyn]:   /inadyn.html
[pimd]:     /pimd.html
[mrouted]:  /mrouted.html
[SMCRoute]: /smcroute.html
[uftpd]:    /uftpd.html
[westermo]: https://www.westermo.com
[WeOS]:     https://www.westermo.com/web/web_en_idc_com.nsf/AllDocuments/771C3C1ECF9B9550C1257E58002B89B3
[FLOSS]:    https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_and_open-source_software
[GitHub]:   https://github.com/troglobit/
[sysklogd]: https://github.com/troglobit/sysklogd
[GPG key]:  http://keys.gnupg.net/pks/lookup?search=0xECA826A37B6C7409&fingerprint=on&op=index
[resume]:   https://resume.troglobit.com
[PDF]:      https://resume.troglobit.com/resume.pdf
[Infix]:    https://github.com/kernelkit/infix
