---
layout: post
title: "Just a Programmer"
date: 2013-08-13 13:46
comments: true
categories: 
---

Sometimes people ask me what I do for a living.  Usually I tend to
pause and think, real hard, becuase the people asking me this aren't
programmers.  They use computers, but are mostly limited to a Windows
machine, writing in MS Word and browsing the Internet, mostly for
Facebook.

I often start off with: "It's a bit complicated to explain ... ", by
which time I've lost most of the people in the room listening to me.
Sometimes I say: "I'm a software architect.", because people seem to
know what architects do for a living, they draw houses, design stuff
and drive SAAB's.  Much like dentists.  The prefix "software" however
does confuse people.

{% img right /images/programming-in-a-nutshell.gif %}

In reality I'm
[just a programmer](http://c2.com/cgi/wiki?JustaProgrammer) with a
little bit more responsibility.  A day starts with coming in to the
office, or sitting down in my home office, connecting to the company
VPN, meanwhile planning loosely the day and my goals.  All while
checking status of e-mail, our IRC channel and the issue tracker for
any recently reported/updated issues in my fields of responsibility.
Somewhere around there I have a pretty good idea about what must be
done and in what order.  So I write it down, in no particular order,
on folded A4 sheets I use for TODO lists and start working.  About 20
minutes into that, when I've just reached
[The Zone](http://c2.com/cgi/wiki?InTheZone), I get interrupted for an
impromptu meeting, or
[telco](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conference_call), which in turn
always leads to another meeting, which in turn runs over and suddenly
it's 16:00 (4 pm) and I have 45 minutes to complete a days work before
picking up the kids from school.

Or ... you can apply that same crazy to a day when trying to fix a
simple bug, finding another horrbile bug and fixing that first,
leading to a minor redesign in need of a refactor, which in turn gives
me a pain to merge since during the time I tried fixing that minor bug
my collegues have done multiple changes to the same files I've been
working on.

That's what I do for a living.  And yes, I know it's not sustainable
work conditions.  I'm working on that, it's on the TODO list ...
