---
layout: post
title: "mrouted v3.9.7"
date: 2014-12-28 19:38:06 +0100
comments: true
categories: multicast
---

Another release today is the venerable [mrouted](/mrouted.html), now
available as
[v3.9.7 on GitHub](https://github.com/troglobit/mrouted/releases/tag/3.9.7).

Changes & New Features
----------------------
- SNMP Support removed.  It never compiled and would have likely
  needed a complete refactor to support modern AgentX.
- Replaced static `config.mk` with configure script from pimd
- RSRR Support now disabled by default, use `--enable-rsrr` to configure
  script to re-enable
- Possible to start with `mrouted` disabled on all interfaces by
  default.  Use `enable` to .conf `phyint` directive and `-M/-N` command
  line options to control behavior, default is same as before.  Thanks
  to Joseph Gooch ([@goochjj](https://github.com/goochjj)) for this feature!
- Add David Waitzman and Craig Partridge to list of original authors
  of `mrouted`, after being by Mr Waitzman :)
- Change to use `stdint.h` types instead of unsafe homegrown types

Bug Fixes
---------
- Fix issue with older BSD kernels, mainly for current FreeBSD 10 and
  older, that don't really give RAW sockets but byte swap `ip_len`
  field, Olivier Cochard-Labbé ([@ocochard](https://github.com/ocochard))
- Build fixes for FreeBSD, should make maintaining ports easier :)
- Change from `select()` to `poll()` due to descriptor limits, e.g.,
  on BSD.
- UNIX 2038 first audit, inspired by OpenBSD.  Cleanup type confusion
  `int/u_long` where it should be `time_t`.  Also, clarify that `genid`
  is OK, since it's used and stored as unsigned 32-bit integer.
- Lots of minor fixes detected by Coverity Scan and Clang scan-build
  https://scan.coverity.com/projects/3320

