---
layout: post
title: "Summer of Code 2015"
date: 2015-09-09 21:49:13 +0200
comments: true
categories: 
---

Summer is now slowly fading away, and what a summer it has been here in
Sweden!  For someone who isn't a fan of the summer heat it has been an
awesome time for brain work, and in my case work on my open source
projects! :-)

Due to my not really taking much vacation previous years I had saved up
for ten weeks (10) this year!  It was really worth it, and for the first
time in many years I actually feel rested.

So what's new?  Well, this summer I've released a **major** upgrade to
[pimd](/pimd.html), which received *PIM-SSM* and full *IGMPv3* support!
[Inadyn](/inadyn.html) has seen two releases, one feature release with
support for Windows and improved support for custom DDNS providers, and
one bugfix release (today).  My own FTP/TFTP server [uftpd](/uftpd.html)
has also got a bit of an overhaul to improve both concurrency and
improved support for various popular clients (Firefox and wget) -- I
released v1.9 of uftpd as a birthday present to myself! ;-)

I've done some other minor work as well, on the "new" [netcalc][], IPv6
and IPv4 subnet calculator, and [watchdogd][] and [finit](/finit.html).
The latter two have however not seen any releases yet, but both have
*major* v2.0 releases with lots of very interesting features that are
going to be revealed soon!

For watchdogd several big improvements to system monitoring (loadavg,
file descriptors, RAM) as well as a very advanced process monitoring
(instrumentation) API is being added.  Finit however is the crown in
making, it is being converted to support multiple instances of services
and to be a fully event driven.  I'm extremely excited about Finit!

Oh, and don't worry ... I did manage to get some actual real downtime on
the beach as well! ;-)

[netcalc]:   https://github.com/troglobit/netcalc
[watchdogd]: https://github.com/troglobit/watchdogd

<!--
  -- Local Variables:
  -- mode: markdown
  -- End:
  -->
