content/post/2018-04-15-nemesis-adoption.markdown, before:

---
title: "N E M E S I S"
date: 2018-04-15T16:11:23+02:00
subtitle: "The Resurrection"
tags: []
---

Summer is  almost upon us.  The  weather in Sweden has  been amazing the
last couple of weeks, sunny and  warm.  This has of course not prevented
me from pursuing my favorite  indoor activity; coding!  This time around
I've spent some time to resurrect the packet injection tool [Nemesis][].

<!--more-->

Nemesis was seemingly abandonded by its original authors almost 15 years
ago.  There  was talk on the  mailing-list about porting to  libdnet, as
well as visions of a proper  stand-alone CLI instead of the command line
tool with options,  but it seems none of these  plans materialized.  The
last  release, which  was v1.4,  does  not build  against libnet1,  only
libnet0.

However, I discovered  through the mailiing list there was  a CVS branch
integrating the porting work of some Cisco engineers to libnet1.

https://sourceforge.net/p/nemesis/mailman/message/177129/

I needed something simple for myself to generate IGMP packets, and since
I'm fluent in C, I decided to give Nemesis a whirl.  I finished the port
in a few days and began fixing some obvious bugs and incorporating fixes
from the mailing list and Debian.

The result is the upcoming v1.5 release, which is a long time coming ...

[Nemesis]: /projects/nemesis/

Commit message:

Minor refactor, add home page at the end
Signed-off-by: Joachim Nilsson <troglobit@gmail.com>

content/post/2018-04-15-nemesis-adoption.markdown, after:

---
title: "N E M E S I S"
date: 2018-04-15T16:11:23+02:00
subtitle: "The Resurrection"
tags: []
---

Summer is  almost upon us.  The  weather in Sweden has  been amazing the
last couple of weeks, sunny and  warm.  This has of course not prevented
me from pursuing my favorite  indoor activity; coding!  This time around
I've spent some time to resurrect the packet injection tool [Nemesis][].

<!--more-->

Nemesis was seemingly abandonded by its original authors almost 15 years
ago.  There  was talk on the  mailing-list about porting to  libdnet, as
well as visions of a proper  stand-alone CLI instead of the command line
tool with options,  but it seems none of these  plans materialized.  The
last  release, which  was v1.4,  does  not build  against libnet1,  only
libnet0.

However, I discovered  through the mailiing list there was  a CVS branch
integrating the porting work of some Cisco engineers to libnet1.

https://sourceforge.net/p/nemesis/mailman/message/177129/

I needed something simple for myself to generate IGMP packets, and since
I'm fluent in C, I decided to give Nemesis a whirl.  I finished the port
in a few days and began fixing some obvious bugs and incorporating fixes
from the mailing list and Debian.

I have set up a new home page  and a GitHub project.  I'm planning a new
release, v1.5, before the  summer.  If you want to help  out or are just
curious to try it out, check out the ⇒ [Home Page][Nemesis]

[Nemesis]: /projects/nemesis/
