content/post/2020-02-16-fixing-file-sharing-in-ubuntu-20.04.markdown, before:

---
title: "Fixing file sharing in Debian/Ubuntu"
subtitle: ""
orig-date: 2020-02-16 21:06:59 +0100
date: 2020-06-20 08:25:00 +0100
tags: []
---

Mounting my ReadyNAS from Nautilus stopped working after upgrading to
Ubuntu 20.04.  Turns out there was a change in behavior in Sambva v4.11
that disabled SMB1 protocol by default.  It'll be interesting to see how
this pans out in the rest of the Linux community ... fortunately there's
a workaround!

> **Update:** same on Debian 11 (*bullseye*)

<!--more-->

The fix, from [AskUbuntu][] and [Reddit][], suggest lowering the min
protocol version.  To do this, open `/etc/samba/smb.conf` with your
favorite editor:

    sudo mg /etc/samba/smb.conf

Add the following line to the `[global]` section:

    client min protocol = NT1

Then restart Samba to have Nautilus (Files) working again:

    sudo systemctl restart smbd.service

That's it.  If it doesn't work, you could try setting an ever lower
protocol version:

    client min protocol = CORE

For me, however, using `NT1` makes everything work.  Including renaming
files and such, which does not work with `CORE`.

[Reddit]: https://www.reddit.com/r/linuxquestions/comments/djvpdn/smb_connection_nautilus_error_debian_bullseye/
[AskUbuntu]: https://askubuntu.com/questions/1229929/cant-acces-nas-anymore-after-upgrading-to-20-04

Commit message:

Update post, works on Linux Mint too
Signed-off-by: Joachim Nilsson <troglobit@gmail.com>

content/post/2020-02-16-fixing-file-sharing-in-ubuntu-20.04.markdown, after:

---
title: "Fixing file sharing in Debian/Ubuntu/Mint"
subtitle: ""
orig-date: 2020-02-16 21:06:59 +0100
date: 2020-07-13 17:37:00 +0100
tags: []
---

Mounting my ReadyNAS from Nautilus stopped working after upgrading to
Ubuntu 20.04.  Turns out there was a change in behavior in Sambva v4.11
that disabled SMB1 protocol by default.  It'll be interesting to see how
this pans out in the rest of the Linux community ... fortunately there's
a workaround!

> **Update:** same on Debian 11 (*bullseye*) and Linux Mint 20 (*Ulyana*)

<!--more-->

The fix, from [AskUbuntu][] and [Reddit][], suggest lowering the min
protocol version.  To do this, open `/etc/samba/smb.conf` with your
favorite editor:

    sudo mg /etc/samba/smb.conf

Add the following line to the `[global]` section:

    client min protocol = NT1

If you're using Nautilus (Files, Nemo), you're done.  But if you're
using Samba, e.g. from the command line, restart it to make change take
effect:

    sudo systemctl restart smbd.service

That's it.  If it doesn't work, you could try setting an ever lower
protocol version:

    client min protocol = CORE

For me, however, using `NT1` makes everything work.  Including renaming
files and such, which does not work with `CORE`.

[Reddit]: https://www.reddit.com/r/linuxquestions/comments/djvpdn/smb_connection_nautilus_error_debian_bullseye/
[AskUbuntu]: https://askubuntu.com/questions/1229929/cant-acces-nas-anymore-after-upgrading-to-20-04
