---
layout: post
title: "Finit v1.8"
date: 2013-06-08 00:04
comments: true
categories:
- Projects
- Finit 
- opensource
---

It's been a long time coming, but here it finally is, [Finit][1]
[v1.8][2]!  The goodies we've been waiting for are:

* Runlevels
* Multiple TTYs
* One-shot tasks

Let's start off with tasks.  Tasks are one-shot commands, with a
syntax like service directives, but are not monitored and respawned
like services.  Tasks are started in parallel, just like services.
For some cases, like the system bootstrap phase, some tasks may need
to be executed in sequence, and for that purpose there also exists a
run command.  Run commands are executed in the order listed in
finit.conf and will run until completion before continuing with the
next task or service.

Multiple TTYs is another neat feature.  Similar to services many TTYs
can be started and automatically be respawned when a user logs out.
For embedded targets wanting to save CPU cycles usually one TTY is the
system console.  Use the console command to point to a defined TTY to
activate "Press any key to activate this console."

Finally, runlevels!  This is the key feature in this release of Finit.
Adding the flexibility from SysV init, without the complexity.  This
is one of the key points of Finit -- it should be simple!

    finit.conf:
        service [2345] /usr/sbin/sshd -D -- OpenSSH Daemon

This command tells Finit that the OpenSSH daemon should only run in
runlevel 2-5.  Finit will also respawn sshd if it should crash, just
like before.

Runlevels are needed in use-cases in many embedded devices.  E.g.,
bootstrap, upgrading, and regular operation.  It is completely up to
the system administrator to setup the runlevels of the product or
installation.  At boot runlevel 'S' runs, well before any networking
is up.  This is used to to one-time probing and setup of the
system. When done the runlevel defined in finit.conf, or the default
2, is started.

See the [README][3] for more information, or the code for the full
details.

[1]: /finit.html
[2]: ftp://ftp.troglobit.com/finit/finit-1.8.tar.xz
[3]: https://github.com/troglobit/finit/blob/master/README.md
