content/howto/netbsd-pkgsrc.markdown, before:

---
name:  "NetBSD pre-built packages"
title: "HowTo use NetBSD pre-built packages"
date: 2015-07-30 11:13:00 +02:00
aliases: [/howto-netbsd-pkgsrc.html]
categories: [ "netbsd", "bsd", "howto" ]
---

*Reminder to self:* you need to set up the `PKG_PATH` to the correct FTP
URI.  Also, use the correct ARCH, otherwise the installer complains.  Do
not use `amd64`, but rather `x86_64`.

Here it is, you'd think this be something the installer could set up a
default for ...

    PKG_PATH=ftp://ftp.netbsd.org/pub/pkgsrc/packages/NetBSD/amd64/6.1.5/All/

The simply

    pkg_add -v git

Or so you might think!  As [this blog][1] points out, you also need to
install some root certificates to get HTTPS/SSL working. *sigh*

    pkg_add -v openssl
    pkg_add -v mozilla-rootcerts

Followed by

    touch /etc/openssl/openssl.cnf
    cd /etc/openssl/certs
    mozilla-rootcerts extract
    mozilla-rootcerts rehash

Then you can clone your GitHub repo and start working ...

    cd
    git clone https://github.com/troglobit/pimd

On FreeBSD it's a lot simpler, type `pkg dasdastradf` and the OS asks
you nicely if you want to install the pkgsrc system?   Reply and then
simply do `pkg add git`.

[1]: http://www.cambus.net/installing-ca-certificates-on-netbsd/

Commit message:

Update for NetBSD 9.0
Signed-off-by: Joachim Wiberg <troglobit@gmail.com>

content/howto/netbsd-pkgsrc.markdown, after:

---
name:  "NetBSD pre-built packages"
title: "HowTo use NetBSD pre-built packages"
date: 2020-08-22 21:39:00 +01:00
orig-date: 2015-07-30 11:13:00 +02:00
aliases: [/howto-netbsd-pkgsrc.html]
categories: [ "netbsd", "bsd", "howto" ]
---

*Reminder to self:* you need to set up the `PKG_PATH` to the correct FTP
URI.  Also, use the correct ARCH, otherwise the installer complains.  Do
not use `amd64`, but rather `x86_64`.

Here it is, you'd think this be something the installer could set up a
default for ...

    PKG_PATH=http://ftp.netbsd.org/pub/pkgsrc/packages/NetBSD/amd64/6.1.5/All/
	
or if you use the latest on an old ThinkPad T42:

    PKG_PATH=http://ftp.netbsd.org/pub/pkgsrc/packages/NetBSD/i386/9.0/All/

The simply

    pkg_add -v git

Or so you might think!  As [this blog][1] points out, you also need to
install some root certificates to get HTTPS/SSL working. *sigh*

    pkg_add -v openssl
    pkg_add -v mozilla-rootcerts

Followed by

    touch /etc/openssl/openssl.cnf
    cd /etc/openssl/certs
    mozilla-rootcerts extract
    mozilla-rootcerts rehash
	
on newer NetBSD you only need to do:

    mozilla-rootcerts install

Then you can clone your GitHub repo and start working ...

    cd
    git clone https://github.com/troglobit/pimd

On FreeBSD it's a lot simpler, type `pkg dasdastradf` and the OS asks
you nicely if you want to install the pkgsrc system?   Reply and then
simply do `pkg add git`.

---

> P.S.  Modern NetBSD have `pkgin`, so use the above only to bootstrap
>       pkgin, then use that for the rest.

[1]: http://www.cambus.net/installing-ca-certificates-on-netbsd/
