source/about/index.markdown, before:

---
layout: page
title: "About Me ..."
date: 2014-06-29 17:01
comments: true
sharing: true
footer: true
---

Welcome to this blog.  My name is Joachim Nilsson and I'm a hacker.

I work at [Westermo R&D](http://www.westermo.com) as software
architect for
[WeOS](http://www.westermo.com/web/web_en_idc_com.nsf/AllDocuments/C150620BD472E363C12579AB0026B08D)
which is a Linux based embedded network operating system for switches
and routers.

On my spare time I'm a Free/Libre Open Source Software
([FLOSS](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_and_open-source_software))
Hacker.  I maintain [Finit](/finit.html), [Inadyn](/inadyn.html),
[pimd](/pimd.html), [mrouted](/mrouted.html),
[SMCRoute](/smcroute.html), [uftpd](/uftpd.html), and
[more](http://github.com/troglobit/).

My
[GPG key](http://pgp.mit.edu:11371/pks/lookup?op=get&search=0x6E0C4758)
fingerprint is DE09 3183 2DBF 8339 191F B2B2 2C2A B0A9 6E0C 4758.
Fetch it from a key server using:

    gpg --recv-keys 6E0C4758

Contact me as 'troglobit' at the Google mailing system.

Commit message:

Update about page slightly.
Signed-off-by: Joachim Nilsson <troglobit@gmail.com>

source/about/index.markdown, after:

---
layout: page
title: "About Me ..."
date: 2014-06-29 17:01
comments: true
sharing: true
footer: true
---

Welcome, my name is Joachim Nilsson and this is my blog!  I'm a hacker
and my handle is `troglobit`.  It is a tribute to my old friend Henrik
Flordal for inspiring me to become a hacker, and is also the password to
the first ever Linux server (Henrik's) I got a login to, back in 1995.

I work at [Westermo R&D][westermo] as a software architect for [WeOS][]
which is a Linux based embedded network operating system for switches
and routers.

On my spare time I write Free/Libre Open Source Software ([FLOSS][]).
For example, I maintain [Finit][], [Inadyn][], [pimd][], [mrouted][],
[SMCRoute][], [uftpd][], and more at [GitHub][].

My [GPG key][] fingerprint is `DE09 3183 2DBF 8339 191F B2B2 2C2A B0A9
6E0C 4758`.  Fetch it from a key server using:

    gpg --recv-keys 6E0C4758

Contact me as 'troglobit' at the Google mailing system.

[Finit]:    /finit.html
[Inadyn]:   /inadyn.html
[pimd]:     /pimd.html
[mrouted]:  /mrouted.html
[SMCRoute]: /smcroute.html
[uftpd]:    /uftpd.html
[westermo]: http://www.westermo.com
[WeOS]:     http://www.westermo.com/web/web_en_idc_com.nsf/AllDocuments/771C3C1ECF9B9550C1257E58002B89B3
[FLOSS]:    http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_and_open-source_software
[GitHub]:   http://github.com/troglobit/
[GPG key]:  http://pgp.mit.edu:11371/pks/lookup?op=get&search=0x6E0C4758
