_howtos/multicast-howto.markdown, before:

---
layout: post
title: "Multicast HowTo"
date: 2015-07-16 15:42
comments: true
categories:
- Multicast
- pimd
- mrouted
- SMCRoute
- IGMP
- igmpproxy
- mcproxy
---

This HowTo attempts to give some insight into the basics of setting up
multicast routing.  Both static multicast routing, with [SMCRoute][1],
and dynamic multicast routing, with [mrouted][2] and [pimd][3].

For some use-cases it may not be possible to use multicast routing, then
I recommend trying out:

* [igmproxy][4], [mcproxy][5], or
* OpenVPN in Layer-2, [bridged mode][6]

Make sure to check out the [FAQ](#faq) for the most common problems.

Good Luck! <br />
-- Joachim


CORE
----

These days I do most of my multicast testing with [CORE][7], which is
readily available i Debian/Ubuntu as simple as:

    sudo apt-get install core-gui

CORE is very simple to get started with:

1. Fire up the GUI
2. Drag and drop a few router icons to the grid
3. Connect them
4. *BOOM* you now have IP addresses automatically assigned!
5. Press the Play button -- routers are now starting up

Play around a bit to try it out, it's awesome!  I usually start `pimd`,
`mrouted`, and `smcroute` manually with a script.  (You can access the
shell of each router by right-clicking on them.)  The host file system
is reachable from each router in CORE, even though they are isolated and
have their own [network namespaces][8].

For more info on network simulation, like the equally awesome [GNS3][9]
for instance, see [Brian Linkletter's Reviews][10].
   
<a name="roll-your-own"></a>

Roll your own Cloud
-------------------

The below setup is done using four Ubuntu 12.04 LTS virtual machines
running the linux-virtual kernel package.  In the HowTo I mention both
[pimd](/pimd.html) and [mrouted](/mrouted.html), since they work
out-of-the-box w/o any config changes, but you could just as easily
use [SMCRoute](/smcroute.html) for the same purpose.

When setting up virtual machines and virtual networking there are
several requirements for the host.  The most important one, that needs
pointing out, is a bug in the IGMP snooping code in the Linux bridging
code: the bridge handles the special case 224.0.0.* well, but all
unknown multicast streams outside of that segment should also be
forwarded as-is to all multicast routers.  Since this does not work
with the current IGMP snooping code in the Linux kernel bridge code
you must disable snooping:

    host# echo 0 > /sys/devices/virtual/net/virbr1/bridge/multicast_snooping
    host# echo 0 > /sys/devices/virtual/net/virbr2/bridge/multicast_snooping
    host# echo 0 > /sys/devices/virtual/net/virbr3/bridge/multicast_snooping

Disabling IGMP snooping on the hosts' `virbr3` is not really necessary,
but is done anyway for completeness, and also because I re-use the
same setup in other test cases as well.

     R1                       R2                       R3                       R4
    +-------+                +-------+                +-------+                +-------+
    |eth0   | 172.16.12.0/24 |eth0   | 172.16.10.0/24 |eth0   |  10.1.0.0/24   |eth0   |
    |     .1|----------------|.2   .1|----------------|.2   .1|----------------|.2     |
    |   eth1|     virbr1     |   eth1|     virbr2     |   eth1|    virbr3      |       |
    +-------+                +-------+                +-------+                +-------+

This setup, or
[another more advanced](ftp://ftp.troglobit.com/pimd/lab-network.svg),
can be used for trying out SMCRoute, pimd and mrouted.  Remember there
is only one multicast routing socket, so for each router (Rn) you have
to choose one of:

1.  `pimd -c pimd.conf`
2.  `mrouted -c mrouted.conf`
3.  `smcroute -f smcroute.conf`

The default configuration files delivered with `pimd` and `mrouted`
usually suffice, see their respective manual pages or the comments in
each `.conf` file for help.

When you start `mrouted`, you're usually ready to go immediately.  But
in the case of `pimd`, wait for routers to peer.  Then you can test your
setup using multicast `ping` from R1 to a `tcpdump` on R4:

    R1# ping -I eth1 -t 3 225.1.2.3
    R4# tcpdump -i eth0

As soon as the PIM routers R2 and R3 have peered you should start seeing
ICMP traffic reaching R4.  If you don't, then check the underlying
routing protocol, e.g. RIP or OSPF, to make sure the *reverse path* is
known -- this is required for PIM since, unlike DVMRP (`mrouted`) which
sort of has RIP built-in, PIM relies on a unicast routing protocol to
have populated the routing table.

Now, to the actual test case.  The first command for R1 adds a route for
all multicast packets, that is necessary for all tools where you cannot
set the outbound interface for the multicast stream, in our case
`iperf`.
 
    R1# ip route add 224.0.0.0/4 dev eth1
    R1# iperf -u -c 225.1.2.3 -T 3
    R4# iperf -s -u -B 225.1.2.3

The `-T` option is important since it tells `iperf` to raise the TTL to
3, the default TTL for multicast is otherwise 1 due to its broadcast
like nature.

The desired output from `iperf` is as follows:

    R1# iperf -u -c 225.1.2.3 -T 3
    ------------------------------------------------------------
    Client connecting to 225.1.2.3, UDP port 5001
    Sending 1470 byte datagrams
    Setting multicast TTL to 3
    UDP buffer size:  160 KByte (default)
    ------------------------------------------------------------
    [  3] local 172.16.12.1 port 55731 connected with 225.1.2.3 port 5001
    [ ID] Interval       Transfer     Bandwidth
    [  3]  0.0-10.0 sec  1.25 MBytes  1.05 Mbits/sec
    [  3] Sent 893 datagrams

    R4# iperf -s -u -B 225.1.2.3
    ------------------------------------------------------------
    Server listening on UDP port 5001
    Binding to local address 225.1.2.3
    Joining multicast group  225.1.2.3
    Receiving 1470 byte datagrams
    UDP buffer size:  160 KByte (default)
    ------------------------------------------------------------
    [  3] local 225.1.2.3 port 5001 connected with 172.16.12.1 port 55731
    [ ID] Interval       Transfer     Bandwidth        Jitter   Lost/Total Datagrams
    [  3]  0.0-10.0 sec  1.25 MBytes  1.05 Mbits/sec   0.268 ms    0/  893 (0%)

To achieve the same using [SMCRoute](/smcroute.html) you need to setup
the multicast routing rules manually.  The easiest way to do this is to
update `/etc/smcroute.conf` and and start/restart `smcroute`, or send
`SIGHUP` to an already running daemon.  The below example makes use of
the source-less (*,G) approach, since we in our limited setup have full
control over all multicast senders.  There is a slight setup cost
associated with this: the time it takes the kernel to notify SMCRoute
about a new source and before the the actual multicast route is written
to the kernel.  In most cases this is acceptable.

In `smcroute.conf` on R2:

    mgroup from eth0 group 225.1.2.3
    mroute from eth0 group 225.1.2.3 to eth1

In `smcroute.conf` on R3:

    mgroup from eth0 group 225.1.2.3
    mroute from eth0 group 225.1.2.3 to eth1

Now, start `smcroute` on each of R2 and R4 and then proceed to start
iperf on R4 and R1, as described above. You should get the same result
as with `mrouted` and `pimd`.

That's it. Have fun!


FAQ
---

1. It doesn't work?

   Check the TTL.

2. Why does the TTL in multicast default to 1?

   Because multicast is classified as broadcast, which inherently is
   dangerous.  Without proper limitation, like switches with support for
   IGMP Snooping, multicast IS broadcast.

3. I cannot change the TTL of the multicast sender, what can I do?!

   Ouch, then you may have to use some firewall mangling technique.
   Here is how you could do it on Linux with iptables:

        iptables -t mangle -A OUTPUT -d <group> -j TTL --ttl-set 128

   Where `group` is the multicast group address of the stream you want
   to change the TTL of.  From this [RedHat mailing list entry][11].

4. I want to use the loopback interface, but it doesn't show in `pimd`?

   Some interfaces, like `lo` or `tunN`, do not have the `MULTICAST`
   interface flag set by default.  It should work if you enable it:

        ip link set lo multicast on
        ip link set tun1 multicast on

5. It doesn't work?

   Check your network topology, maybe a switch between the sender and
   the receiver doesn't properly support IGMP snooping.

   For virtual/cloud setups, see above for disabling IGMP snooping
   entirely in the Linux kernel.

6. The PIM routers seem to have peered, and they list the multicast
   groups I want to forward, the TTL is OK, but I see no traffic?

   Could be your underlying routing protocol (RIP/OSPF) does not know
   the reverse path to the source.  Make sure the sender's network is
   listed in the routing table on the receiving sides routing table.

7. What's the routing performance of `pimd`/`mrouted`/`smcroute`?

   N/A.  Neither of them take active part in the actual forwarding of
   multicast frames.  This is what the kernel, or dedicated routing HW,
   does.  The routing daemons `pimd`/`mrouted`/`smcroute` only
   manipulate the multicast routing table(s) of the operating system's
   kernel.


[1]: https://github.com/troglobit/smcroute/
[2]: https://github.com/troglobit/mrouted/
[3]: https://github.com/troglobit/pimd/
[4]: http://sourceforge.net/projects/igmpproxy/
[5]: https://github.com/mcproxy/mcproxy
[6]: https://community.openvpn.net/openvpn/wiki/OpenVPNBridging
[7]: http://www.nrl.navy.mil/itd/ncs/products/core
[8]: http://blog.scottlowe.org/2013/09/04/introducing-linux-network-namespaces/
[9]: http://www.gns3.com/
[10]: http://www.brianlinkletter.com/open-source-network-simulators/
[11]: http://www.redhat.com/archives/linux-cluster/2007-September/msg00150.html

<!--
  -- Local Variables:
  -- mode: markdown
  -- End:
  -->

Commit message:

Update FAQ with link to the new GRE+PIM-SM HowTo
Signed-off-by: Joachim Nilsson <troglobit@gmail.com>

_howtos/multicast-howto.markdown, after:

---
layout: post
title: "Multicast HowTo"
date: 2015-07-16 15:42
comments: true
categories:
- Multicast
- pimd
- mrouted
- SMCRoute
- IGMP
- igmpproxy
- mcproxy
---

This HowTo attempts to give some insight into the basics of setting up
multicast routing.  Both static multicast routing, with [SMCRoute][1],
and dynamic multicast routing, with [mrouted][2] and [pimd][3].

For some use-cases it may not be possible to use multicast routing, then
I recommend trying out:

* [igmproxy][4], [mcproxy][5], or
* OpenVPN in Layer-2, [bridged mode][6]

Make sure to check out the [FAQ](#faq) for the most common problems.

Good Luck! <br />
-- Joachim


CORE
----

These days I do most of my multicast testing with [CORE][7], which is
readily available i Debian/Ubuntu as simple as:

    sudo apt-get install core-gui

CORE is very simple to get started with:

1. Fire up the GUI
2. Drag and drop a few router icons to the grid
3. Connect them
4. *BOOM* you now have IP addresses automatically assigned!
5. Press the Play button -- routers are now starting up

Play around a bit to try it out, it's awesome!  I usually start `pimd`,
`mrouted`, and `smcroute` manually with a script.  (You can access the
shell of each router by right-clicking on them.)  The host file system
is reachable from each router in CORE, even though they are isolated and
have their own [network namespaces][8].

For more info on network simulation, like the equally awesome [GNS3][9]
for instance, see [Brian Linkletter's Reviews][10].
   
<a name="roll-your-own"></a>

Roll your own Cloud
-------------------

The below setup is done using four Ubuntu 12.04 LTS virtual machines
running the linux-virtual kernel package.  In the HowTo I mention both
[pimd](/pimd.html) and [mrouted](/mrouted.html), since they work
out-of-the-box w/o any config changes, but you could just as easily
use [SMCRoute](/smcroute.html) for the same purpose.

When setting up virtual machines and virtual networking there are
several requirements for the host.  The most important one, that needs
pointing out, is a bug in the IGMP snooping code in the Linux bridging
code: the bridge handles the special case 224.0.0.* well, but all
unknown multicast streams outside of that segment should also be
forwarded as-is to all multicast routers.  Since this does not work
with the current IGMP snooping code in the Linux kernel bridge code
you must disable snooping:

    host# echo 0 > /sys/devices/virtual/net/virbr1/bridge/multicast_snooping
    host# echo 0 > /sys/devices/virtual/net/virbr2/bridge/multicast_snooping
    host# echo 0 > /sys/devices/virtual/net/virbr3/bridge/multicast_snooping

Disabling IGMP snooping on the hosts' `virbr3` is not really necessary,
but is done anyway for completeness, and also because I re-use the
same setup in other test cases as well.

     R1                       R2                       R3                       R4
    +-------+                +-------+                +-------+                +-------+
    |eth0   | 172.16.12.0/24 |eth0   | 172.16.10.0/24 |eth0   |  10.1.0.0/24   |eth0   |
    |     .1|----------------|.2   .1|----------------|.2   .1|----------------|.2     |
    |   eth1|     virbr1     |   eth1|     virbr2     |   eth1|    virbr3      |       |
    +-------+                +-------+                +-------+                +-------+

This setup, or
[another more advanced](ftp://ftp.troglobit.com/pimd/lab-network.svg),
can be used for trying out SMCRoute, pimd and mrouted.  Remember there
is only one multicast routing socket, so for each router (Rn) you have
to choose one of:

1.  `pimd -c pimd.conf`
2.  `mrouted -c mrouted.conf`
3.  `smcroute -f smcroute.conf`

The default configuration files delivered with `pimd` and `mrouted`
usually suffice, see their respective manual pages or the comments in
each `.conf` file for help.

When you start `mrouted`, you're usually ready to go immediately.  But
in the case of `pimd`, wait for routers to peer.  Then you can test your
setup using multicast `ping` from R1 to a `tcpdump` on R4:

    R1# ping -I eth1 -t 3 225.1.2.3
    R4# tcpdump -i eth0

As soon as the PIM routers R2 and R3 have peered you should start seeing
ICMP traffic reaching R4.  If you don't, then check the underlying
routing protocol, e.g. RIP or OSPF, to make sure the *reverse path* is
known -- this is required for PIM since, unlike DVMRP (`mrouted`) which
sort of has RIP built-in, PIM relies on a unicast routing protocol to
have populated the routing table.

Now, to the actual test case.  The first command for R1 adds a route for
all multicast packets, that is necessary for all tools where you cannot
set the outbound interface for the multicast stream, in our case
`iperf`.
 
    R1# ip route add 224.0.0.0/4 dev eth1
    R1# iperf -u -c 225.1.2.3 -T 3
    R4# iperf -s -u -B 225.1.2.3

The `-T` option is important since it tells `iperf` to raise the TTL to
3, the default TTL for multicast is otherwise 1 due to its broadcast
like nature.

The desired output from `iperf` is as follows:

    R1# iperf -u -c 225.1.2.3 -T 3
    ------------------------------------------------------------
    Client connecting to 225.1.2.3, UDP port 5001
    Sending 1470 byte datagrams
    Setting multicast TTL to 3
    UDP buffer size:  160 KByte (default)
    ------------------------------------------------------------
    [  3] local 172.16.12.1 port 55731 connected with 225.1.2.3 port 5001
    [ ID] Interval       Transfer     Bandwidth
    [  3]  0.0-10.0 sec  1.25 MBytes  1.05 Mbits/sec
    [  3] Sent 893 datagrams

    R4# iperf -s -u -B 225.1.2.3
    ------------------------------------------------------------
    Server listening on UDP port 5001
    Binding to local address 225.1.2.3
    Joining multicast group  225.1.2.3
    Receiving 1470 byte datagrams
    UDP buffer size:  160 KByte (default)
    ------------------------------------------------------------
    [  3] local 225.1.2.3 port 5001 connected with 172.16.12.1 port 55731
    [ ID] Interval       Transfer     Bandwidth        Jitter   Lost/Total Datagrams
    [  3]  0.0-10.0 sec  1.25 MBytes  1.05 Mbits/sec   0.268 ms    0/  893 (0%)

To achieve the same using [SMCRoute](/smcroute.html) you need to setup
the multicast routing rules manually.  The easiest way to do this is to
update `/etc/smcroute.conf` and and start/restart `smcroute`, or send
`SIGHUP` to an already running daemon.  The below example makes use of
the source-less (*,G) approach, since we in our limited setup have full
control over all multicast senders.  There is a slight setup cost
associated with this: the time it takes the kernel to notify SMCRoute
about a new source and before the the actual multicast route is written
to the kernel.  In most cases this is acceptable.

In `smcroute.conf` on R2:

    mgroup from eth0 group 225.1.2.3
    mroute from eth0 group 225.1.2.3 to eth1

In `smcroute.conf` on R3:

    mgroup from eth0 group 225.1.2.3
    mroute from eth0 group 225.1.2.3 to eth1

Now, start `smcroute` on each of R2 and R4 and then proceed to start
iperf on R4 and R1, as described above. You should get the same result
as with `mrouted` and `pimd`.

That's it. Have fun!


FAQ
---

1. It doesn't work?

   Check the TTL.

2. Why does the TTL in multicast default to 1?

   Because multicast is classified as broadcast, which inherently is
   dangerous.  Without proper limitation, like switches with support for
   IGMP Snooping, multicast IS broadcast.

3. I cannot change the TTL of the multicast sender, what can I do?!

   Ouch, then you may have to use some firewall mangling technique.
   Here is how you could do it on Linux with iptables:

        iptables -t mangle -A OUTPUT -d <group> -j TTL --ttl-set 128

   Where `group` is the multicast group address of the stream you want
   to change the TTL of.  From this [RedHat mailing list entry][11].

4. I want to use the loopback interface, but it doesn't show in `pimd`?

   Some interfaces, like `lo` or `tunN`, do not have the `MULTICAST`
   interface flag set by default.  It should work if you enable it:

        ip link set lo multicast on
        ip link set tun1 multicast on

5. It doesn't work?

   Check your network topology, maybe a switch between the sender and
   the receiver doesn't properly support IGMP snooping.

   For virtual/cloud setups, see above for disabling IGMP snooping
   entirely in the Linux kernel.

6. The PIM routers seem to have peered, and they list the multicast
   groups I want to forward, the TTL is OK, but I see no traffic?

   Could be your underlying routing protocol (RIP/OSPF) does not know
   the reverse path to the source.  Make sure the sender's network is
   listed in the routing table on the receiving sides routing table.

7. What's the routing performance of `pimd`/`mrouted`/`smcroute`?

   N/A.  Neither of them take active part in the actual forwarding of
   multicast frames.  This is what the kernel, or dedicated routing HW,
   does.  The routing daemons `pimd`/`mrouted`/`smcroute` only
   manipulate the multicast routing table(s) of the operating system's
   kernel.

8. Do you have any example of how to set up GRE and `pimd`?

   Yes, for all the gory details see
   [this howto](/blog/2016/07/05/multicast-routing-with-pim-sm-over-gre/)

[1]: https://github.com/troglobit/smcroute/
[2]: https://github.com/troglobit/mrouted/
[3]: https://github.com/troglobit/pimd/
[4]: http://sourceforge.net/projects/igmpproxy/
[5]: https://github.com/mcproxy/mcproxy
[6]: https://community.openvpn.net/openvpn/wiki/OpenVPNBridging
[7]: http://www.nrl.navy.mil/itd/ncs/products/core
[8]: http://blog.scottlowe.org/2013/09/04/introducing-linux-network-namespaces/
[9]: http://www.gns3.com/
[10]: http://www.brianlinkletter.com/open-source-network-simulators/
[11]: http://www.redhat.com/archives/linux-cluster/2007-September/msg00150.html

<!--
  -- Local Variables:
  -- mode: markdown
  -- End:
  -->
