content/howtos/mrouting-in-freebsd.md, before:

---
name:  "MROUTING in FreeBSD"
title: "HowTo: Add Multicast Routing to FreeBSD kernel"
date: 2014-09-23 01:55:19 +0200
aliases: [/howto-add-multicast-routing-support-to-the-freebsd-kernel.html]
categories: [ "freebsd", "kernel", "multicast", "howto" ]
---

This is a very short blog post, mostly intended as a reminder to myself.
Basically, there are two methods of adding multicast routing support to
the FreeBSD kernel:

1. Rebuild the kernel with `options MROUTING`
2. Load the kernel module: `kldload ip_mroute`

The kernel rebuild assumes the `src.txz` set was installed previously.

    cd /usr/src
    cd sys/amd64/conf
    cat GENERIC | sed 's/GENERIC$/MULTICAST/' > MULTICAST
    echo 'options   MROUTING         # Multicast routing' >> MULTICAST
    echo 'options   PIM              # Enable for pimd'   >> MULTICAST
    cd -
    make kernel KERNCONF=MULTICAST
    reboot

That's it.  Remember to make sure your Qemu VM has enough RAM or it
will probably page fault on you.  I use 1,0 GB RAM.

The other option, to load the ready made module, is likely better.  But
you want it to load at boot.  So add this to `/boot/loader.conf`:

    ip_mroute_load="yes"

Commit message:

Update FreeBSD mrouting howto
Signed-off-by: Joachim Wiberg <troglobit@gmail.com>

content/howtos/mrouting-in-freebsd.md, after:

---
name:  "MROUTING in FreeBSD"
title: "HowTo: Add Multicast Routing to FreeBSD kernel"
date: 2021-08-01 08:31:12 +0200
orig-date: 2014-09-23 01:55:19 +0200
aliases: [/howto-add-multicast-routing-support-to-the-freebsd-kernel.html]
categories: [ "freebsd", "kernel", "multicast", "howto" ]
---

This is a very short blog post, mostly intended as a reminder to myself.
Basically, there are two methods of adding multicast routing support to
the FreeBSD kernel:

1. Rebuild the kernel with `options MROUTING`
2. Load the kernel module: `kldload ip_mroute`

The kernel rebuild assumes the `src.txz` set was installed previously.

    cd /usr/src
    cd sys/amd64/conf
    cat GENERIC | sed 's/GENERIC$/MULTICAST/' > MULTICAST
    echo 'options   MROUTING         # Multicast routing' >> MULTICAST
    echo 'options   PIM              # Enable for pimd'   >> MULTICAST
    cd -
    make kernel KERNCONF=MULTICAST
    reboot

That's it.  Remember to make sure your Qemu VM has enough RAM or it
will probably page fault on you.  I use 1,0 GB RAM.

The other option, to load the ready made module, is likely better.  But
you want it to load at boot.  So add this to `/boot/loader.conf`:

    ip_mroute_load="yes"

To see what modules are available, check the `/boot/kernel/` directory.
There is, for instance also the IPv6 mrouting module:

    ip6_mroute_load="yes"
