---
categories:
- programming
- projects
- hacking
comments: true
date: 2015-09-09T21:49:13Z
title: Summer of Code 2015
url: /2015/09/09/summer-of-code-2015/
aliases: /blog/2015/09/09/summer-of-code-2015/
---

Summer is now slowly fading away, and what a summer it has been here in
Sweden!  For someone who isn't a fan of the summer heat it has been an
awesome time for brain work, and in my case work on my open source
projects! :-)

Due to my not really taking much vacation previous years I had saved up
for ten weeks (10) this year!  It was really worth it, and for the first
time in many years I actually feel rested.

So what's new?  Well, this summer I've released a **major** upgrade to
[pimd](/pimd.html), which received *PIM-SSM* and full *IGMPv3* support!
[Inadyn](/inadyn.html) has seen two releases, one feature release with
support for Windows and improved support for custom DDNS providers, and
one bugfix release (today).  My own FTP/TFTP server [uftpd](/uftpd.html)
has also got a bit of an overhaul to improve both concurrency and
improved support for various popular clients (Firefox and wget) -- I
released v1.9 of uftpd as a birthday present to myself! ;-)

I've done some other minor work as well, on the "new" [netcalc][], IPv6
and IPv4 subnet calculator, as well as [watchdogd][] and [finit][].  The
latter two have however not seen any releases yet, but both have *major*
v2.0 releases with lots of very interesting features that are going to
be revealed soon!

For watchdogd several big improvements to system monitoring (loadavg,
file descriptors, RAM) as well as a very advanced process monitoring
(instrumentation) API is being added.  Finit however is the crown in
making, it is being converted to support multiple instances of services
and to be fully event driven.  I'm extremely excited about Finit!

Oh, and don't worry ... I did manage to get some actual real downtime on
the beach as well! ;-)

[finit]:     /finit.html
[netcalc]:   https://github.com/troglobit/netcalc
[watchdogd]: https://github.com/troglobit/watchdogd

<!--
  -- Local Variables:
  -- mode: markdown
  -- End:
  -->
