content/posts/2022-01-15-finit-v4.2.md, before:

---
title: "Finit v4.2 Released!"
subtitle: "Try it out in Qemu"
date: 2022-01-16 15:30:23 +0100
tags: [ finit, init, opensource ]
draft: false
---
[![finit logo](/images/finit3.png#floatright)](https://troglobit.com/finit.html)

I'm very pleased to announce [Finit v4.2][]!  It comes seven months
after the last release, v4.1, with a bunch of fixes and some new
features.  See the release notes for details.

<!--more-->

One of the most notable fixes is legacy support for old vendor kernels
that do not yet support cgroups v2 -- this is now detected and
disabled automatically by Finit.

Another neat feature is the support for early logging, using the
kernel ring buffer, before any syslog daemon has started.  This
support is synchronized with the [sysklogd v2.3][] release which adds
support for extracting non-kernel log messages from `/dev/kmsg` --
other syslog daemons support this too, but sysklogd is the recommended
syslog with Finit.

## Try before you buy!

If you're interesting in trying Finit out yourself, but haven't got
the time or patience to set it up.  Here is a x86_64 VM image for QEMU
on, based on [myLinux][].

  * **Download** [myLinux-2.0-dev.tar.xz][download]  
    (13 MiB, expands to 62 MiB; Fint v4.2)

> **Note:** this is an example, with a limited number of services
>           included.  To use in a full-blown production system, you
>           can quickly build your own image from a [myLinux][] base.
>           I recommend the [Buildroot][] manual for help on how to
>           extract the full potential of your system.

To start it up:

  1. Ensure you have QEMU installed, this varies depending on your
     preferred Linux distribution, on Linux Mint and other Debian
	 derivatives: `sudo apt install qemu-system-x86`

  2. Download the image and untar it:

        cd ~/Downloads
        tar xf myLinux-2.0-dev.tar.xz

  3. Run the `qemu.sh` script, you can modify it to suit your needs:

		cd myLinux-2.0-dev
		./qemu.sh

You should see the bootstrap messages and a message at the end:

> "Please press Enter to activate this console."

No getty is spawned unless a user is active at the console, which in
most headless deployments there isn't.  Let's pretend we're servicing
this devie, and press enter -- you are presented with a login prompt.
The default username is `root` and for the first time login there is
no password:

![](/images/finit-v4.2-first-boot.png)

To allow SSH login, you must set a password, use `passwd`.

Now you're settled in and it's time to get to know Finit.  Play around
a bit with `initctl`, it comes with limited built-in help, and there
is much [documentation available online][docs]:

![](/images/finit-v4.2-initctl.png)

Try stopping and starting services.  For instance, check the status of
the `sntpd` service, notice the condition on a default route -- check
what happens when you remove the default route.

[More on conditions](/post/2022-01-09-dependency-handling-in-finit/)
in another blog post.

Have fun! :-)  
 /Joachim

[Finit v4.2]:    https://github.com/troglobit/finit/releases/tag/4.2
[sysklogd v2.3]: https://github.com/troglobit/sysklogd/releases/tag/v2.3.0
[myLinux]:       https://github.com/troglobit/myLinux
[download]:      https://ftp.troglobit.com/myLinux/myLinux-2.0-dev.tar.xz
[Buildroot]:     https://buildroot.org/
[docs]:          https://github.com/troglobit/finit/tree/master/doc

Commit message:

Fix verbatim indent and add links to online man pages
Signed-off-by: Joachim Wiberg <troglobit@gmail.com>

content/posts/2022-01-15-finit-v4.2.md, after:

---
title: "Finit v4.2 Released!"
subtitle: "Try it out in Qemu"
date: 2022-01-16 15:30:23 +0100
tags: [ finit, init, opensource ]
draft: false
---
[![finit logo](/images/finit3.png#floatright)](https://troglobit.com/finit.html)

I'm very pleased to announce [Finit v4.2][]!  It comes seven months
after the last release, v4.1, with a bunch of fixes and some new
features.  See the release notes for details.

<!--more-->

One of the most notable fixes is legacy support for old vendor kernels
that do not yet support cgroups v2 -- this is now detected and
disabled automatically by Finit.

Another neat feature is the support for early logging, using the
kernel ring buffer, before any syslog daemon has started.  This
support is synchronized with the [sysklogd v2.3][] release which adds
support for extracting non-kernel log messages from `/dev/kmsg` --
other syslog daemons support this too, but sysklogd is the recommended
syslog with Finit.

## Try before you buy!

If you're interesting in trying Finit out yourself, but haven't got
the time or patience to set it up.  Here is a x86_64 VM image for QEMU
on, based on [myLinux][].

  * **Download** [myLinux-2.0-dev.tar.xz][download]  
    (13 MiB, expands to 62 MiB; Fint v4.2)

> **Note:** this is an example, with a limited number of services
>           included.  To use in a full-blown production system, you
>           can quickly build your own image from a [myLinux][] base.
>           I recommend the [Buildroot][] manual for help on how to
>           extract the full potential of your system.

To start it up:

  1. Ensure you have QEMU installed, this varies depending on your
     preferred Linux distribution, on Linux Mint and other Debian
	 derivatives:

            sudo apt install qemu-system-x86

  2. Download the image and untar it:

            cd ~/Downloads
            tar xf myLinux-2.0-dev.tar.xz

  3. Run the `qemu.sh` script, you can modify it to suit your needs:

            cd myLinux-2.0-dev
            ./qemu.sh

You should see the bootstrap messages and a message at the end:

    Please press Enter to activate this console.

No getty is spawned unless a user is active at the console, which in
most headless deployments there isn't.  Let's pretend we're servicing
this devie, and press enter -- you are presented with a login prompt.
The default username is `root` and for the first time login there is
no password:

![](/images/finit-v4.2-first-boot.png)

To allow SSH login, you must set a password, use `passwd`.

Now you're settled in and it's time to get to know Finit.  Play around
a bit with `initctl`, it comes with limited built-in help `initctl
help`, and there is much [documentation available online][docs], including man pages: [initctl(8)][], [finit(8)][], and [finit.conf(5)][].

![](/images/finit-v4.2-initctl.png)

Try stopping and starting services.  For instance, check the status of
the `sntpd` service, notice the condition on a default route -- check
what happens when you remove the default route.

[More on conditions](/post/2022-01-09-dependency-handling-in-finit/)
in another blog post.

Have fun! :-)  
 /Joachim

[Finit v4.2]:    https://github.com/troglobit/finit/releases/tag/4.2
[sysklogd v2.3]: https://github.com/troglobit/sysklogd/releases/tag/v2.3.0
[myLinux]:       https://github.com/troglobit/myLinux
[download]:      https://ftp.troglobit.com/myLinux/myLinux-2.0-dev.tar.xz
[Buildroot]:     https://buildroot.org/
[docs]:          https://github.com/troglobit/finit/tree/master/doc
[initctl(8)]:    https://man.troglobit.com/man8/initctl.8.html
[finit(8)]:      https://man.troglobit.com/man8/finit.8.html
[finit.conf(5)]: https://man.troglobit.com/man5/finit.conf.5.html
